+++
title = "Fall 2016"

date = 2018-12-02T10:23:40+03:00

draft = false
toc = true
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.
layout = "docs"

# Add menu entry to sidebar
[menu.dossier]
  linktitle = "Fall 2016"
  weight = 97
  parent = "Evaluations"
+++

## PHIL 0460: Introduction to Philosophy of Mind

{{% staticref "files/evals/2016 Fall - PHIL 0460 - Quantitative Lecture Report.pdf" "newtab" %}}
<i class="fa fa-file-pdf"></i> Quantitative Data
{{% /staticref %}} | {{% staticref "files/evals/2016 Fall - PHIL 0460 - Qualitative Lecture Report.pdf" "newtab" %}}
<i class="fa fa-file-pdf"></i> Qualitative Data
{{% /staticref %}}

### Quantitative Feedback

**Question**|**Mean**|**S.Dev.**
:-----|:-----:|:-----:
The instructor presented the course in an organized manner.|4.56|0.57
The instructor stimulated my thinking.|4.35|0.79
The instructor evaluated my work fairly.|4.33|0.66
The instructor made good use of examples to clarify concepts.|4.54|0.67
The instructor maintained a good learning environment.|4.47|0.64
The instructor was accessible to students.|4.45|0.60
Express your judgment of the instructor's overall teaching effectiveness.|4.08|0.78

{{% alert note %}}
53 respondents totaling 47% of registered students; 5-point scale from 1 [hardly at all/ineffective] to 5 [to a very high degree/excellent].
{{% /alert %}}


### Selected Qualitative Feedback

> "Robbie is friendly and shows great passion for the subject. He is not
> alienating, and has only increased my passion for philosophy. A
> remarkable professor. Also, amazingly lively for a 9 AM class."

> "He was very approachable and accessible. He is a very good
> professor."

> "**The lectures were very organized and I loved that the lecture notes
> were always posted on CourseWeb in advance so that I could focus more
> on what Dr. Howton was saying while adding extra notes I felt I
> needed**. He seems very passionate about what he does and provides
> really good examples to clarify sometimes confusing topics."

> "He commanded his lectures extremely well. He spoke strongly and
> clearly. He never seemed to rush through his notes which covered the
> material so well that it almost entirely eliminated the need for
> references beyond the readings. And the readings themselves charted an
> incredibly ordered and logical coarse \[sic\] through out the entire
> semester such that, now at the end, everything we've learned has led
> seamlessly from one place to the next, culminating in the most
> interesting and complex material."

> "He was never hard to approach and always polite and patient when
> explaining concepts."
