+++
title = "Fall 2017"

date = 2018-12-02T10:23:40+03:00

draft = false
toc = false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.
layout = "docs"

# Add menu entry to sidebar
[menu.dossier]
  linktitle = "Fall 2017"
  weight = 95
  parent = "Evaluations"
+++

## PHIL 0080: Introduction to Philosophical Problems

{{% staticref "files/evals/2017 Fall - PHIL 0080 - Combined Lecture Report.pdf" "newtab" %}}
<i class="fa fa-file-pdf"></i> Raw Data
{{% /staticref %}}

### Quantitative Feedback

**Question**|**Mean**|**Resp.**|**S.Dev.**
:-----|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:
The instructor created an atmosphere that kept me engaged in course content.|4.09|86|0.83
The instructor was prepared for class.|4.59|85|0.76
The instructor treated students with respect.|4.63|84|0.76
The instructor was available to me (in-person, electronically, or both).|4.37|59|0.69
The instructor evaluated my work fairly.|4.41|68|0.80
The instructor provided feedback that was helpful to me.|4.16|57|0.80
I learned a lot from this course.|4.25|85|0.86

{{% alert note %}}
Total enrollment 115; 5-point scale from 1 [hardly at all/ineffective] to 5 [to a very high degree/excellent].
{{% /alert %}}


### Selected Qualitative Feedback

> There was an air of egalitarianism, and Robbie is clearly enthusiastic about the subject to the point of it being infectious.

> liked how the powerpoint helped to guide my notes.

> I liked how Robbie provided us with the slides before lecture so we could take notes directly on them.

> All the material was conveniently organized and located on courseweb [= Blackboard], negating the need to purchase materials or flip through pages.

> It was very engaging and handled touchy topics very gracefully.

> The system of prep materials before the content and options to learn more after we covered that material in lecture

> I liked the outside [= "Prep"] material we reviewed before class, it was very relevant.

> Learning from videos and podcasts outside of class.

> I liked how there were different examples and resources provided for each topic in order to better our understanding

> I appreciated how easy it was to ask questions and discuss concepts during lecture.

> Robbie is obviously really smart. He lets students asks questions and answers them thoroughly. The lecture slides were very organized and helpful.
