+++
title = "Fall 2018"

date = 2018-12-02T10:23:40+03:00

draft = false
toc = false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.
layout = "docs"

# Add menu entry to sidebar
[menu.dossier]
  linktitle = "Fall 2018"
  weight = 93
  parent = "Evaluations"
+++

## PHIL 403: Topics in Ancient Philosophy: Aristotle's Psychology

{{% staticref "files/evals/2018 Fall - PHIL 403 - Combined Report.pdf" "newtab" %}}
<i class="fa fa-file-pdf"></i> Raw Data
{{% /staticref %}}

### Quantitative Feedback

**Question**|**Mean**|**% Resp.**|
:-----|:-----:|:-----:|
The level of the instructor's preparedness for classes was: | 2.71 | 70%
The instructor's ability to communicate and explain effectively was: | 2.43 | 70%
The instructor's willingness to provide help when needed was: | 2.57 | 70%
The instructors use of class time effectively was: | 1.00 | 70%
The instructors enthusiasm was: | 2.71 | 70%
The level of instructor's concern for students' learning and progress was: | 2.43 | 70%
The instructor's attitude towards students was: | 2.71 | 70%
The amount of knowledge gained from the course was: | 2.43 | 70%
The materials used in the course were: | 1.00 | 70%
In terms of helping me learn the subject matter, the teaching methods were: | 2.00 | 70%
The methods used to measure learning were: | 2.00 | 70%
The course's organization was: | 2.00 | 70%
The instructor's content knowledge was: | 2.71 | 70%
Overall, the instructor was: | 2.67 | 60%
Overall, the course was: | 2.33 | 60%

{{% alert note %}}
7-point scale ranging from +3 [extremely good] to -3 [extremely poor]; total enrollment: 10 students.
{{% /alert %}}

### Selected Qualitative Feedback

No qualitative feedback received.

## HUMS 132: Illusions: When Appearances Deceive

{{% staticref "files/evals/2018 Fall - HUMS 132 - Combined Report.pdf" "newtab" %}}
<i class="fa fa-file-pdf"></i> Raw Data
{{% /staticref %}}

### Quantitative Feedback

**Question**|**Mean**|**% Resp.**|
:-----|:-----:|:-----:|
The level of the instructor's preparedness for classes was: | 2.66 | 73%
The instructor's ability to communicate and explain effectively was: | 2.66 | 73%
The instructor's willingness to provide help when needed was: | 2.69 | 73%
The instructors use of class time effectively was: | 2.41 | 73%
The instructors enthusiasm was: | 2.76 | 73%
The level of instructor's concern for students' learning and progress was: | 2.41 | 73%
The instructor's attitude towards students was: | 2.79 | 73%
The amount of knowledge gained from the course was: | 2.00 | 73%
The materials used in the course were: | 1.97 | 73%
In terms of helping me learn the subject matter, the teaching methods were: | 2.21 | 73%
The methods used to measure learning were: | 2.21 | 73%
The course's organization was: | 2.38 | 73%
The instructor's content knowledge was: | 2.76 | 73%
Overall, the instructor was: | 2.64 | 70%
Overall, the course was: | 2.00 | 70%

{{% alert note %}}
7-point scale ranging from +3 [extremely good] to -3 [extremely poor]; total enrollment: 40 students.
{{% /alert %}}

### Selected Qualitative Feedback

> "**He is a great teacher. He really changed my opinion on philosophy for the better.** I enjoyed being in his class."

> "Dr. Howton this year was one of the greatest teachers that I've seen. I've gained a lot of knowledge and new point of views [_sic_] from his teaching skills."

> "**The teacher was really patient towards every question that students have. The slides shown were very useful for the course and for exams. Whenever I had an issue, he was very kind and accurate with helping in term papers and essays.** The only disadvantage was that the texts were really long and in the it felt boring to go till the end of the text."

> "I took this course by pure chance. I'm extremely glad that I did. **I learned so much, I could never thank Robbie enough. Koç University is lucky to have a person like him, and I am very lucky to have been enrolled in his class.** I really wish more proffessors [_sic_] were like him. Sincerely, thank you Robbie. You have touched my mind and helped me answer some questions. **The relation between real life and the class material was amazing.** I hope to see you again!"

> "Best instructor."
