+++
title = "Diversity Statement"

date = 2018-12-02T10:23:40+03:00

draft = false
toc = false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.
layout = "docs"

# Add menu entry to sidebar
[menu.dossier]
  linktitle = "Diversity Statement"
  weight = 3
  parent = "Teaching Dossier"
+++

Teaching at the University of Toronto (located in the heart of a richly
multicultural city), the University of Pittsburgh (with its large and
international student body), and Koç University (where almost none of
the students share my linguistic or cultural upbringing) has given me
experience with students from a wide variety of cultural, linguistic,
and educational backgrounds and of different philosophical abilities. In
my view, engaging with such a diversity of perspectives is one of the
pleasures of teaching philosophy. But I also believe that a
diverse student body places special responsibilities on a teacher of
philosophy, who must be sensitive to the different needs of students as
they approach philosophical texts, aware of the cultural presuppositions
of major philosophical figures that may not be shared by all students,
and willing to confront the perception that philosophy is a devotion
exclusive to affluent white men.

I am committed to facilitating fruitful engagement with philosophical
texts for students of all cultural, linguistic, and educational
backgrounds, and in my teaching I take measures to promote every
student's interest and success in her philosophical education. First, I
make an effort to maximize the diversity of my syllabi in courses on the
history of philosophy as well as on contemporary topics. While this may
seem harder to do in the history of philosophy, I have found success
incorporating women philosophers and philosophers of color in developing
and teaching syllabi for ancient, medieval, and modern philosophy. In
the medieval and modern periods we are fortunate to have correspondence
of some of those periods' major figures---including Abelard, Descartes,
Leibniz, and Locke---with lesser-known women philosophers, including
Héloïse, Elizabeth of Bohemia, and Margaret Cavendish. I think these
correspondence are valuable teaching tools and I make them a central
feature of my introductory course on modern philosophy. The ancient
period is more difficult, in particular since almost nothing survives
from women intellectuals of that period. However, in my teaching I try
to stress the significance of medieval Arabic and North African
philosophers (who are also worthy of study in their own right) on the
transmission and interpretation of ancient philosophers, especially
Aristotle, as well the important role that women
philosophers and philosophers of color have played in advancing current our
understanding of ancient philosophical texts.

I believe diversifying syllabi benefits students in at least two ways.
First, it demonstrates the variety of perspectives that have shaped and
continue to shape the discipline. Second, it exposes students to
philosophical themes in ways that may be more compelling and relevant to
their experience. For instance, the unit on metaphysics in my
introduction to philosophy course frames issues concerning essence and
human nature in terms of contemporary debates about the relationship
between our biological nature as human beings and other aspects of our
respective identities, including race and disability. By presenting
fundamental metaphysical questions through the work of minority
philosophers like Charles Mills and Elizabeth Barnes, I aim to show
students that even abstract philosophical questions can bear on issues
relevant to their own lives.

A second measure I take, especially when teaching the history of
philosophy, is to ensure that all students are provided with the
historical and cultural context necessary for understanding course
material. The importance of this practice was impressed on me several
years ago, when, as a TA for a course on early medieval philosophy, an
international student asked me to explain what is distinctive about the
Christian God. What surprised me about the question was that I had
assumed---*wrongly*---that my students shared the same broad familiarity
with the religious context of medieval Christian philosophers that I
received from my own upbringing. From then on, I have striven to reflect
critically on the assumptions I bring to my presentation of especially
classical philosophical texts, and as far as possible to make those
assumptions explicit for the benefit of those who do not share my
cultural background.

Finally, I take measures in student evaluation to counteract my own
implicit biases and to encourage the success of students who, for
various reasons, struggle with English academic prose. In general, I
rely on anonymous grading as much as possible, and I encourage students
who would benefit from alternative forms of evaluation to work with me
to develop a suitable approach to their assessment, whether it involves
verbal testing by one-on-one discussion with me, take home reports, or
other means. However, one form of evaluation I've insisted on is
writing. In many cases, I think it is a disservice to students not to
use a philosophy course as a vehicle for improving skills as important
as prose composition. Nevertheless, I also recognize that some students have
greater educational deficits to overcome in their writing than others. I
have various ways of helping these students improve their writing and
succeed in my courses, including encouraging them to seek help from me in
drafting papers, taking time to correct grammar in grading drafts, and
(when necessary) exercising lenience in penalizing poor grammar to
encourage students to express their philosophical ideas to the best of
their ability.

There is more I can do to encourage the interest and success in
philosophy of a diverse student body, and I am interested in learning
and testing new methods for doing so. I see philosophy as a "big tent"
discipline, one that can and ought to welcome a diversity of
perspectives. As a white, cisgender male, I believe my role in advancing
this conception of the discipline is to give a platform for voices
different from my own to make their contribution.
