+++
title = "Teaching Statement"

date = 2018-12-02T10:23:40+03:00

draft = false
toc = false
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.
layout = "docs"

# Add menu entry to sidebar
[menu.dossier]
  linktitle = "Teaching Statement"
  weight = 2
  parent = "Teaching Dossier"
+++

For teachers and students alike, it is all too easy to regard the texts
that make up the standard philosophical curriculum as artifacts, relics
of views that were once compelling but have since---perhaps *long*
since---been superseded. My guiding aim in teaching philosophy is to
dispel this tendency by creating the conditions for fruitful struggle
with these texts. One of the most valuable aspects of my philosophical
training was struggling to understand classic works of philosophy.
Confronted with a text I did not immediately understand, I was
challenged to ask questions and consider the underlying issues anew, and
in doing so I came to appreciate the text for reasons beyond its
historical or dialectical significance. The same, I've found, is true of
my students. Given the right tools, a student challenged by a text she
does not immediately understand will be encouraged to interrogate it,
rather than treat it as something that has already been understood and
rightly discarded; she will consider for herself the quality of the
reasons given for the view on offer; and she will seize the opportunity
to articulate, verbally and in writing, her own assessment of that view.

My job as a teacher of philosophy is to equip students with the
resources they need to struggle fruitfully with philosophical texts---in
my lectures, in classroom activities, and in student assessment. I
design my courses around a model of guided reading. On this model,
students' first exposure to the content of an assigned text comes in
lecture, where they are presented with concise definitions of the
concepts and potted versions of the arguments they will encounter. I
distribute slides of my lectures, which I instruct the students to use
as an aid to spotting the relevant concepts and arguments as they read.
While students often report having difficulty with the reading, they are
just as often surprised at how much they've understood and how clearly
they can relate these concepts and arguments in class discussion.

I supplement this initial guided reading with a number of classroom
activities designed to reinforce and amplify students' comprehension. In
one activity, students take turns as "lead discussants" of pairs of
readings arguing on either side of a debate. The readings may be
historical, for instance the letters of Descartes and Elisabeth of
Bohemia on mind-body interaction; or they may be more contemporary, for
instance Smart and Kripke on the identity theory of mind. As lead
discussant, the student advocates for one of the opposed positions in
class discussion, answering questions and responding to challenges from
the other lead discussant, her peers, and me. Students prepare for this
role by writing an "executive summary" of their reading and by
rehearsing with me and the other lead discussant in office hours.
Students generally report a positive experience as a lead discussant,
and they seem to me remarkably fluent in their ability to explain and
defend often subtle philosophical positions. Another activity involves
tasking pairs of students with producing "fair copies" of class
meetings: polished transcripts of lectures and class discussion compiled
from the students' notes and corrected by me. The result is that
students construct their own lecture notes as guides for reading and
study.

My policies for student assessment likewise emphasize fruitful struggle
with the assigned texts. An important evaluative tool in all of my
courses is argument analysis, in which I ask students to clarify,
reconstruct, and formulate objections to arguments in primary sources,
following a model I illustrate in my lectures. I stress the importance
of writing outlines and preliminary drafts, and I incentivize students
to do so by offering to discuss and comment on early outlines and
drafts. This policy is beneficial for two reasons. First, revising in
light of my comments enables the student to clarify her own
understanding of the relevant issues. Moreover, it gives me a basis for
evaluating the student's *improvement* in addition to the quality of the
resulting paper. In general I prefer anonymous assessment of exams, but
I try as much as possible to use a student's improvement as a basis for
evaluating her performance in assignments demanding critical engagement
with philosophical texts.

Consistently positive student feedback on this model testifies to its
pedagogical efficacy. In evaluations of my courses, students regularly
report that the lecture slides, as well as other "preparatory"
material such as podcasts or YouTube videos, helped them understand the
assigned readings and the content of the lectures; that acting as lead
discussant enhanced their engagement with the material; and that class
assignments such as regular reading responses and composing "scribe
sheets" for the production of fair copies made a positive contribution
to their learning experience. I am also encouraged by consistently
positive feedback on my performance in the classroom: students often
remark on my enthusiasm as a lecturer, my willingness to answer
questions both inside and outside of the classroom, and my willingness
to discuss and comment on drafts of their assignments. In Spring 2019
the positive student feedback on my evaluations exceeded all College and
University benchmarks, for which reason I was recognized by my College
for teaching excellence.

Aristotle claimed that teachers think they have achieved their goal when
they observe their students actually doing what they have been taught.
Rightly so. In my view the aim and chief pleasure of teaching philosophy
is to observe students doing what they could not do before: reading,
with increased understanding and appreciation, some of the great works
of our discipline.
