+++
title = "Book Project"

date = 2018-12-02T10:23:40+03:00

draft = false
toc = true
type = "docs"  # Do not modify.
layout = "docs"

# Add menu entry to sidebar
[menu.research]
  linktitle = "Book Project"
  weight = 3
  parent = "Research Statement"
+++

# _Aristotle on Perceptual Discrimination_

After "Aristotle on Why the Senses Discriminate" and "Soul as a 'Complex Activity' in Aristotle's Natural Science" are accepted for publication, I plan to write a book manuscript that draws together both major topics of my research. The book, _Aristotle on Perceptual Discrimination_, will be the first dedicated study of Aristotle's thesis that the senses are discriminative capacities of soul. While this thesis has received greater attention from commentators in recent years, it has for the most part been considered in isolation from its context in the explanatory project of the Aristotelian life sciences and read instead as part of an attempt to explain the character of ordinary perceptual experience. I argue that this is a mistake. For Aristotle, the significance of the thesis that the senses are discriminative capacities concerns precisely the teleological role of sense perception in animal life. To the question, why do animals perceive in the ways they do?, Aristotle has a single, univocal answer: because the senses are _discriminative_ capacities. By this, Aristotle means that the senses belong to the animals that have them because _discriminating_ by means of those senses promotes the achievement of the ends those animals naturally pursue. Understanding Aristotle's thesis that the senses discriminate therefore requires understanding how Aristotle thinks sensory discrimination contributes to goals that structure animal life.

This book defends a novel answer to this question. For Aristotle, discriminating a sensible quality by means of the sense that perceives it is a way of _knowing_ that quality---a state Aristotle understands as one in which the perceiver is presented with the cause of a perceptual experience _as that cause essentially is_. For this reason, Aristotle's case for the thesis that the senses are discriminative capacities is a case for regarding perception as a kind of _knowledge_.

I present Aristotle's case for perceptual discrimination as a response to two historical challenges, _Democritean Eliminativism_ and _Platonic Intellectualism_. According to Democritean Eliminativism, sensible qualities such as colors and flavors cannot be objects of knowledge because they are not genuine _causes_ but rather effects on a perceiver---a view that in Aristotle's estimation amounts to a denial that sensible qualities _exist_. According to Platonic Intellectualism, even if the senses put the perceiver in touch with genuine causes, perception of sensible qualities cannot amount to _knowledge_ of these qualities, since only the soul _by itself_ can "discriminate" the being of the qualities perceived by the senses.

## Part 1: Against Democritean Eliminativism

Against Democritean Eliminativism, Aristotle defends a thoroughly realist and objectivist conception of sensible qualities. On his view, colors, flavors, and other sensible qualities are identical to the causal, physical features of sensible bodies that enable them to produce experiences of those qualities in us. **Chapter 1** argues that this conception of sensible _qualities_ should be distinguished from Aristotle's discussion in _De Anima_ of sensible _objects_, which are perceiver-dependent in a way in which sensible qualities are not. **Chapter 2** defends an interpretation of Aristotle's account of the essence of sensible qualities in _De Sensu_. I argue that Aristotle defends a physicalist conception of sensible qualities. But unlike modern physicalists, Aristotle denies that there is a necessary contrast between the way a perceptual quality appears in experience and the way it essentially is. Since a perceptual quality is “mixture _and_ motion,” it can appear in experience as the perceiver-independent property it essentially is.

## Part 2: Against Platonic Intellectualism

Chapters 3--5 detail Aristotle's response to Platonic Intellectualism. As Aristotle sees it, the challenge is to show that the senses themselves can discriminate the sensible qualities they perceive. I argue that Aristotle's account of the sensory capacities of the soul are designed in part to meet this challenge. **Chapter 3** considers Aristotle's view that the senses are like "ratios" and "mean states" of the qualities they perceive, a claim that forms the basis of an argument demonstrating that the senses discriminate. On the interpretation I provide, the senses are mean states because each is the form and final cause of an organ that, _qua_ organ of that sense, instantiates the objective mean of the scale of qualities that sense perceives. This interpretation sets up a question about the nature of perceptual affection---one that has received abundant attention from scholars in recent decades. **Chapter 4** addresses this question with a novel proposal. Perceptual affection is neither a literal alteration of the sense organ nor a purely formal or "spiritual" change. It is not a change at all, but an affection whose nature is exhausted by the activity of a sensible quality and excludes any alteration of the organ---a process Aristotle in another context compares to getting a sunburn or growing red from embarrassment.

Drawing on this conception of the sensory mean state, **Chapter 5** presents Aristotle's argument demonstrating that the senses discriminate. The demonstration is initially obscure, but Aristotle's reasoning is illuminated by an analogy with his celebrated doctrine of the ethical mean. Because virtue is a mean state, vicious actions and emotions appear to the virtuous person as what they essentially are, namely excessive or deficient. Similarly, because each sense is a mean state, the qualities it perceives appear to it as what they essentially are, namely light or dark, sweet or bitter, or more generally as occupying the objective position on the quality scale that defines each as the quality it is. For a sense to “discriminate” a perceptual quality, then, is for that quality to appear to the _sensory_ mean state as what it essentially is.

## Part 3: The Significance of Aristotle's Perceptual Epistemology

The final part of the book explores the psychological, epistemological, and historical consequences of this conception of perceptual discrimination. **Chapter 6** considers the unity of the senses in numerically one and the same perceptual capacity and the consequent ability of perceivers both to make discriminations across sensory modalities and to perceive the unity of sensible qualities in a single sensible body. While Aristotle's much-discussed attempts to account for these advanced forms of perceptual discrimination may fail, I argue that they provide indirect support for the present interpretation of _sensory_ discrimination. For the theoretical limitations that seem to prevent Aristotle from providing a satisfactory account of these forms of perceptual discrimination stem from an conception of the senses that, I argue, Aristotle takes to be central to his demonstrative account of sensory discrimination.

**Chapter 7** considers Aristotle's claim that perception is a _gnôsis tis_, a mode of "cognition" or knowledge. While this claim has led many commentators to conclude that Aristotle has an "implicitly graded" notion of cognition, on the present interpretation perception turns out to be a full-fledged cognitive capacity, standing in relation to sensible qualities as scientific knowledge, craft knowledge, and _nous_ do to their respective objects. In support of this reading, I consider Aristotle's teleological explanations of sense perception in non-rational animals in _De Anima_ and _De Sensu_, drawing on Aristotle's conception of soul as a "complex activity" organized in the pursuit of a single, teleologically primary end. I also consider the role of perception in scientific inquiry in the _Posterior Analytics_, arguing that the "prior knowledge" provided by perception from which rational perceivers come to know the first principles of a science consists in knowledge of the causes of particular sensory experiences.

Finally, **Chapter 8** provides a historical epilogue to the foregoing discussion of Aristotle's theory of perceptual discrimination. I argue that, in responding to Democritean Eliminativism and Platonic Intellectualism, Aristotle sees himself as reviving a Protagorean conception of perception as a measure or "criterion" for objects' possession of sensible qualities, although one which respects a thoroughly objective and realist ontology. Understanding Aristotle's perceptual epistemology in this way, I argue, brings it into close contact with next-generation debates over whether the senses or our sensory impressions can serve as "criteria of truth," a result that promises to shed new light on the development of Hellenistic epistemology.
